Well we've got our character pretty much blocked in but the last few things we need to do is work on
the head and the face and also begin pulling some points to round the character out so he isn't quite
so blocky.
So let's work on that.
First let's deal with well let's work on the ears.
Let's take a look at the front and side views again.
And let's take a look at the ears here.
I think that for the ears we could select maybe these four faces on the side of the head and we could
use these to extrude the ears out so I'll press e for extrude and then click and I'm going to go straight
to the scale tool and scale in.
I'm going to hit the ESC key and scale in a bit and I might go back over to my default view to see how
this is working.
I mean the period key on the number pad and it's looking a little pushed in I'm going to go ahead and
bring it out a bit let's bring it out like that and I'll scale this in.
All right.
So let's go and extrude out again.
I'm going to hit E and extrude.
I'll pull it out a bit.
Scale it in a tad move it back a bit.
We we'll just see if we can't block these out.
Now remember that these need to be a little bit smaller than the actual ear just like I've tried to
stay smaller than the head and the smaller than the body here we need room to sculpt out when I go back
to my default view and see how we're doing here.
It's pretty ugly so I'm going to have to begin pulling some points now here.
So I'm just going to begin arranging the points to try and create a better shape for the ear.
All right.
I've done a little point pulling to get the ear shaped up a bit.
I've just tried to get more of a flat rectangular shape here from the ear so I think what I'll do now
is select these faces and let's start extruding again I'll go back to the character images view and
now press me and then click and then pull back out with the G key scale these in a bit with the Eski
so I can begin to kind of shape it up like this.
I'd like to move it back a bit.
I think it moves.
It should kind of go back as it comes out and from here I'll go ahead and extrude one more time.
Pressing the G key and pulling out scaling and.
And I think I'll do it one more time beyond that as well to get out to the tip of the ear.
E quick G and move out.
And I'll go ahead and scale this out.
Just a bit
so let's take a look at it in the default view.
That's a little long.
Let's move that back a bit.
We do that is quite an ear there.
Let's move these back I'm going to go to Virtex mode and hit the Z key and I want to just grab these
edges here so you can hold down the control key and click and drag and lasso select points like that.
So I'm going to grab that and move them back a bit.
There we go.
All right.
I think that will work for the ears.
Let's take a look at the face now I went ahead and did the ears before the face because we're going
to add more geometry to this.
Now we're going to add more edges and I wanted to do the extruding and point pulling when there were
fewer points to pull.
So now for the eyes I think what I want is an edge right through here.
So our press control our and click and drag and edge right through here and for the mouth for the mouth.
I think I'll do.
It's going to be tight but I think I'll try three edges in here I'm going to press control our and I'm
going to scroll the mouse wheel and let's try for three edges here let's see what happens.
All right for the eyes I'm going to select these faces.
And I'll hit the click.
Hit the key and scale those in oh let me scale this out one more time.
Bring it out and I'll hit the scale and one more time.
So that's just giving us geometry to work with down here in the face.
We could take this area for the mouth.
Hit the scale in it easy the scale in.
All right.
So that gives us edge loops around the mouth and the eyes that I think we can work with.
Let's look at the nose should we do something with the nose here.
We could give ourselves a little extra geometry for the nose as well I imagine.
Let's do that.
I'll select this it be I'm going to kind of pull out just a hair once again I know it doesn't look like
much but that's not the point here the point here is to get us geometry that we can work with.
That should help out quite a bit actually.
And we go.
All right.
So there is the face in the ears.
Let's also work just a little bit on rounding the body out.
I think all the geometry is here now.
Let's work on just a rounding out the body.
Now I'm going to just go into vertex mode and just begin pulling points and just begin rounding the
character out like this.
So it isn't quite so blocky.
So I've been pulling points here just trying to round out the body and the legs.
And I also wanted to point out a tool that you can use for something like this.
It isn't perfect but it can help sometimes like for the arms and the legs.
What I have down here under the Tools tab is a section called Loop tools.
And if I scroll this down you can see I've got some tools here.
This circle tool can help us out.
Now the way to add this plug in or add on is to go to file and user preferences and then you can go
to Add ons.
And notice here I've got me go scroll down.
Here we go.
I've got this mesh loop tools checked and this is what gives you that section over here.
Now if you can't find it you can always just come up here to the search field and type in loop and it
will go to that selection.
Now just add a checkmark here and then click save user settings and then you should see this area or
this section here in the Tools tab.
Now what it can do for you is Ahman Allt select this row of edges or points here and then if I just
click circle it it'll round those out into a circle.
Now as I said it isn't perfect.
It may not do exactly what you want it to do and then you can just undo but it can help when doing something
like this.
And I'm just going to use the circle to create circles for the arms and I'll come down here for the
legs as well.
And you see how it kind of ballooned it out so it doesn't always work perfectly but you can test it
and see what you think.
All right well I think we're just about ready to sculpt.
We've got our base geometry done and it's looking pretty good.
Now once again we did all this work up front before we began sculpting.
So we would have the proper geometry and the proper edge flow so that we're not fighting against the
mesh as we begin sculpting.